OP-PROT-017-v1.0 — LINE-ANCHORED FROZEN-BODY EXTRACTION STANDARD AND SAME-RUN IDENTITY VERIFICATION GATE


Artifact ID: OP-PROT-017-v1.0
Dispatch: DQ-054
Generated UTC: 2026-07-27
Prepared by: Claude, Anthropic, model claude-opus-5 — session_01EkKVrmmSk92bvfArEp8YjW
Class: OP-PROT / OPERATIONS / EXACT-OBJECT IDENTITY / EXTRACTION STANDARD
Authority: mechanical extraction and verification procedure only
Mathematical verdict created: NONE
Organizational-independence credit created: ZERO
Canonical impact: NONE
Status: PUBLISHED / ADOPTION-READY / CONSERVATIVE OVER EVERY CURRENTLY DECLARED THEOREM B IDENTITY


Requested inputs discharged: CL-CLWO-20260727-01 Item 11 (Defect A, Defect B, recommended normative sentence, creation-path warning).
Prior art superseded prospectively: the extraction wording carried in the FREEZE POLICY headers of the Theorem B chain, and the EXTRACTION RULE paragraph of LS-MAN-034-v1.0.


0. WHY THIS EXISTS


An exact-hash review is defined by the reviewer recomputing a declared frozen-body identity from a fresh native export. That definition is only meaningful if the extraction procedure is deterministic. Across the Theorem B chain the procedure was stated three different ways, each incomplete in a different place, and correct behaviour was therefore inferred by the reader rather than specified. Two of the three statements can be executed literally and still produce the wrong bytes.


This document replaces inference with a specification, and backs the specification with an exhaustive falsification matrix run against every currently declared identity in the chain.


1. THE THREE INCOMPATIBLE PRIOR STATEMENTS


P1. Theorem B document headers, for example LS-DER-022: "Extract UTF-8 text strictly after the line BEGIN... and before the line END.... Normalize CRLF/CR to LF, remove all trailing LF characters, append exactly one LF, and hash without BOM."
Gaps: does not say the marker must be matched as a complete line rather than as a substring; does not say what to do when more than one candidate is present; silent on leading whitespace.


P2. LS-DER-023 header, the most careful of the three: "Markers are matched as complete lines, not as substrings."
Gaps: silent on multiplicity; silent on leading whitespace.


P3. LS-MAN-034-v1.0 EXTRACTION RULE: "locate the final exact begin/end marker lines ... preserve all leading LF characters"
Gaps: "final" is a silent tie-break. It happens to select the correct region in every current document, but it cannot fail, so a future document with a trailing appendix that mentions the markers on their own lines would be extracted wrongly and silently.


2. MEASURED EVIDENCE — SAME-RUN RE-FETCH OF ALL TEN CHAIN LEAVES


Every object named in LS-MAN-034-v1.0 was re-fetched in this run by exact Drive ID as a native text/plain export, decoded, and hashed. No cached or historical identity was used. Ten of ten reproduced their declared frozen-body byte counts and SHA-256 values under the standard defined in Section 4.


Columns: artifact, raw export bytes, BOM present, CRLF terminators, count of BEGIN token as substring, count of lines exactly equal to BEGIN token, leading LF characters in the extracted region, declared body bytes.


S2-DER-010   22137   yes   yes   1   1   2   17845
LS-DER-021   15424   yes   yes   2   1   0   11924
LS-DER-022   26465   yes   yes   2   1   0   21932
LS-DER-023   17919   yes   yes   2   1   0   13795
LS-DER-024   22799   yes   yes   2   1   0   19078
LS-DER-025   12076   yes   yes   2   1   0    8275
LS-DER-026   15281   yes   yes   2   1   0   11725
LS-DER-027   16153   yes   yes   2   1   0   11330
LS-DER-030   16940   yes   yes   2   1   0   12794
LS-DER-031   10919   yes   yes   2   1   0    7963


Transport calibration control. LS-DER-023 is the only chain object whose raw native export SHA-256 is independently declared elsewhere, in CL-AUD-TBG3A-IMPORTS-20260726-01. This run reproduced it exactly: raw export 17,919 bytes, SHA-256 e24736d9dc60f6a9d936903f28280d0ebc5ad0dfbbc96c6567d8eac412697db9. The transport and decoding path used for all ten objects is therefore verified end to end against a previously published raw-byte receipt, not only against body receipts computed by this same procedure.


Three facts recorded here that were not previously stated anywhere in the corpus:
E1. All ten native exports carry a UTF-8 BOM.
E2. All ten native exports use CRLF terminators.
E3. Every one of the ten documents contains exactly ONE line equal to its BEGIN token and exactly ONE line equal to its END token. Uniqueness is therefore already satisfied corpus-wide, so a fail-closed uniqueness rule costs nothing today and buys determinism tomorrow.


3. FALSIFICATION MATRIX


Five disputed dimensions were enumerated and every combination was executed against all ten declared identities.


M marker resolution: substring-first, line-first, line-final, line-unique
L leading whitespace: preserve, strip
N terminators: normalize CRLF and lone CR to LF, leave raw
T trailing LF: remove all then append exactly one, leave as is
B BOM: strip on decode, keep on decode


64 combinations. Result:
10 of 10 reproduced: 6 combinations
9 of 10 reproduced: 6 combinations
0 of 10 reproduced: 52 combinations


All six survivors share exactly one profile: LINE-ANCHORED marker resolution, PRESERVE leading whitespace, NORMALIZE terminators, TRAILING one LF. The six differ only in the two dimensions the corpus cannot currently distinguish: first versus final versus unique line selection, which coincide because of fact E3; and BOM strip versus keep, which is inert because the BOM precedes the BEGIN marker line and therefore never enters the extracted region.


D-A. SUBSTRING MATCHING IS FALSIFIED, 0 OF 10. Nine of the ten documents name their own marker tokens inside the FREEZE POLICY sentence in the unfrozen header, so each token occurs twice as a substring and a first-occurrence search extracts a 12 to 22 byte fragment of prose instead of the body. This confirms and generalizes CL-CLWO-20260727-01 Defect A from seven documents to ten.


D-A EXTENDED, NEW FINDING. Substring matching also fails on S2-DER-010, the one document where the token occurs exactly once, because a substring match resumes immediately after the token rather than after that line's terminator, so the region carries a leading remnant and the byte count differs. Substring matching is therefore wrong even where it is unambiguous. The safer wording of S2-DER-010's policy sentence, which refers to the unique marker lines without naming the tokens, removes the duplication hazard but does not by itself make substring matching correct.


D-B. LEADING-STRIP IS FALSIFIED, 9 OF 10, WITH EXACTLY ONE WITNESS. The only difference between the 10/10 and 9/10 tiers is the leading-whitespace dimension, and the only failing object is S2-DER-010, whose frozen body begins with two LF characters. Stripping them yields 17,843 bytes against a declared 17,845. This confirms CL-CLWO-20260727-01 Defect B and isolates its single live witness.


D-C. TERMINATOR NORMALIZATION IS LOAD-BEARING, NOT COSMETIC. Every combination that skips normalization scores 0 of 10, because all ten exports are CRLF.


4. NORMATIVE STANDARD


The following is the sole authorized frozen-body extraction procedure for this Drive. It is stated as executable steps because every previous statement failed by omission rather than by error.


N1. OBTAIN. Fetch a native text/plain export of the target by exact Drive ID in the same run as the verification. Cached bytes, historical bytes, and natural-language renderings are not admissible inputs.


N2. DECODE. Decode as UTF-8. If a BOM is present, discard it. Never re-encode a BOM into the hashed region.


N3. NORMALIZE. Replace every CRLF with LF, then replace every remaining lone CR with LF. Perform no other transformation.


N4. RESOLVE MARKERS, FAIL CLOSED. Split the normalized text on LF. A candidate marker line is a line whose entire content equals the marker token exactly, after stripping at most one trailing CR. Require exactly one candidate for the begin token and exactly one for the end token, and require the begin line to precede the end line. Any other count is a HARD FAILURE: return no identity, and record an extraction-ambiguity defect against the object. Do not tie-break by first, by last, or by position.


N5. SELECT REGION. Take the text strictly after the terminator of the begin marker line and strictly before the first character of the end marker line.


N6. PRESERVE LEADING. Do not strip leading whitespace, leading LF, or leading spaces or tabs. Leading bytes are part of the frozen body.


N7. TERMINATE. Remove all trailing LF characters, then append exactly one LF.


N8. HASH. Encode UTF-8 without BOM. Record byte length and SHA-256 together. A byte length without a hash, or a hash without a byte length, is not an identity.


N9. DECLARE. Any document that declares a frozen body must carry the sentence in Section 4.1 verbatim, must declare BODY_BYTES and BODY_SHA256, and must not name its own marker tokens as standalone lines anywhere outside the two delimiters.


4.1 NORMATIVE POLICY SENTENCE, TO BE COPIED VERBATIM INTO FUTURE FREEZE POLICY HEADERS


"Extraction is governed by OP-PROT-017. Locate the begin and end markers as the unique lines equal to the marker token after stripping an optional trailing CR; more than one match, or none, is a hard failure. Take the region strictly after the begin marker line terminator and strictly before the first character of the end marker line. Normalize CRLF and lone CR to LF. Do not strip leading whitespace or leading LF. Remove all trailing LF and append exactly one LF. Encode UTF-8 without BOM."


The sentence deliberately does not name the marker tokens, which is what makes it safe under a non-conforming substring implementation as well as a conforming one.


5. REFERENCE IMPLEMENTATION


The normative steps are realized by the following program. It is published byte-exact and conversion-disabled as OP-PROT-017-REF-v1.0 so that it is itself a bindable object rather than a transcription.


import hashlib


def frozen_identity(raw, begin, end):
    text = raw.decode("utf-8-sig")
    text = text.replace("\r\n", "\n").replace("\r", "\n")
    lines = text.split("\n")
    b = [i for i, L in enumerate(lines) if L.rstrip("\r") == begin]
    e = [i for i, L in enumerate(lines) if L.rstrip("\r") == end]
    if len(b) != 1 or len(e) != 1 or e[0] <= b[0]:
        raise ValueError("EXTRACTION AMBIGUITY: fail closed")
    seg = "\n".join(lines[b[0] + 1:e[0]])
    seg = seg.rstrip("\n") + "\n"
    body = seg.encode("utf-8")
    return len(body), hashlib.sha256(body).hexdigest()


Verified: this function returns the declared byte count and SHA-256 for all ten objects listed in Section 2, and raises on ambiguity rather than guessing.


6. CREATION-PATH RULE


A converting upload into Google Docs is not byte-preserving. Measured on this Drive: it prepends a BOM, converts every terminator to CRLF, and expands single blank lines. Facts E1 and E2 of Section 2 are the corpus-wide fingerprint of that transform. Therefore:


C1. A frozen body's identity is never the identity of what was uploaded. It is the identity of what a fresh native export yields afterwards. Declare identities only from a post-creation re-export in the same run.


C2. Prefer one of two creation paths. Either upload the frozen payload with conversion disabled, so the stored bytes are the authored bytes; or accept conversion and publish the identity from the re-export, in a separate numbered receipt.


C3. Because blank-line expansion is the only part of the transform that is not idempotent in an obvious way, a frozen body authored for a converting upload should avoid consecutive blank lines inside the delimiters.


7. CONSERVATIVITY — THIS STANDARD CHANGES NO EXISTING IDENTITY


This is the load-bearing safety property, and it is proved rather than asserted. Section 3 shows the standard of Section 4 is one of the six combinations that reproduce all ten currently declared Theorem B identities. Adopting it therefore does not invalidate, restate, or require a successor to any existing frozen object, any existing receipt, or any existing review verdict. It removes a family of wrong implementations without moving a single declared hash.


Two prospective behaviour changes only:
- an object with duplicate marker lines will now fail closed instead of being silently extracted by a tie-break. No current object is affected, by fact E3.
- an implementation that stripped leading whitespace will now be non-conforming. Only S2-DER-010 currently distinguishes the two, and the standard sides with its declared receipt.


8. ADOPTION, ROLLBACK, FALSIFIERS


Adoption is prospective and mechanical. New freeze policy headers copy Section 4.1. Existing frozen bodies are not edited, because their declared identities already conform.


Rollback is a single reversible step: mark this artifact superseded and republish the prior wording. No identity, verdict, package root, seal, or scientific status depends on this document, so rollback has no scientific effect.


Falsify or amend this standard if any of the following is shown:
F1. any object in Section 2 fails to reproduce its declared identity from a fresh native export under Section 4;
F2. a currently declared Theorem B frozen identity is found that Section 4 does not reproduce, which would refute the conservativity claim of Section 7;
F3. a document is found in the authoritative folder with two or more lines equal to a marker token, in which case fact E3 is stale and the affected object needs an extraction-ambiguity repair;
F4. a native export is observed without a BOM or with LF terminators, which would show the creation-path fingerprint of Section 6 is not universal and would make N2 and N3 load-bearing in a way not yet measured;
F5. the reference implementation of Section 5 is shown to diverge from the normative steps of Section 4 on any input.


9. SCOPE FIREWALL


This document specifies how to compute an identity. It does not certify that any body is mathematically correct, does not create or transfer independent-review credit, does not restore, promote, seal, publish, or release anything, and does not alter the retracted status of Theorem B. The Anthropic line remains one lineage and earns no new organizational independence from operations work.


This session could not write to GP-REG-032. Every register commit implied by this artifact is specified for another line in CL-CLWO-20260727-02 and is not asserted here as done.


BEGIN_OPPROT017_FROZEN_BODY
OP-PROT-017 — LINE-ANCHORED FROZEN-BODY EXTRACTION STANDARD
1. Extraction is governed by this standard. Locate the begin and end markers as the unique lines equal to the marker token after stripping an optional trailing CR; more than one match, or none, is a hard failure. Take the region strictly after the begin marker line terminator and strictly before the first character of the end marker line. Normalize CRLF and lone CR to LF. Do not strip leading whitespace or leading LF. Remove all trailing LF and append exactly one LF. Encode UTF-8 without BOM.
2. A frozen identity is a byte length and a SHA-256 together, computed in the same run from a fresh native text/plain export fetched by exact Drive ID.
3. Substring marker matching is prohibited. It reproduces zero of the ten currently declared Theorem B identities.
4. Leading whitespace stripping is prohibited. It reproduces nine of ten and fails on S2-DER-010, whose body begins with two LF characters.
5. Terminator normalization is mandatory. Skipping it reproduces zero of ten, because every current native export uses CRLF.
6. Marker resolution fails closed on any count other than exactly one begin line and exactly one end line. Tie-breaking by first or by last position is prohibited.
7. A converting upload is not byte-preserving; it prepends a BOM, converts terminators to CRLF, and expands blank lines. Declare identities only from a post-creation re-export, or upload with conversion disabled.
8. This standard reproduces every currently declared Theorem B frozen identity and therefore requires no successor to any existing frozen object.
9. This standard creates no mathematical verdict, no independence credit, and no canonical, sealing, publication, or release authority.
END_OPPROT017_FROZEN_BODY


BODY_BYTES and BODY_SHA256 for the region above are declared in the same-run receipt CL-REC-OPPROT017-20260727-01, because a converting upload is not byte-preserving and this artifact cannot honestly declare its own post-conversion identity before it exists. See Section 6, rule C1.


END OP-PROT-017-v1.0